12, and this is only the fourth week in this new series, the first half of the year. We
dealt with the 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, the latter portion of that, and the latter
portion of 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. And as we looked at that, those various principles
that were contained therein, we finished that up right at the end of June. Walk Worthy and
Please God, that was the title of that six-month series, and I certainly enjoyed teaching through
those principles and making the application. And then a month ago, we started a brand new
series on Wednesday evenings, and doing what we ought to do. And doing what we ought to
do, I've said this each week, that knowing what we ought to do doesn't mean we do what
we ought to do, but certainly if we know, it goes a long way to helping us do the things
that we ought to do. Here in Romans chapter 12, we're going to deal with a subject this
evening, if you're taking notes, I've titled the message, We Ought to Walk Humbly. We ought
to walk humbly. God has much to say about pride and humility in His Word. In fact, the
text that is before us, we find that Paul is going to provide some brief instruction
with regard to spiritual gifts. And as he gives this instruction, he's going to preface
the instruction with this admonition to every recipient. Notice what he says in verse number
3, Romans 12 and verse number 3, as we're diving right in, the Bible says, For I say,
through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you. And so we see that
this admonition, this charge is being given to every recipient. Of course, through preservation,
this admonition or warning is given to us as well. Notice what it says right in the
midst of verse number 3, Not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think, but to
think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith. We find
that the charge to walk humbly within the context of spiritual gifts, it grabs my attention.
And I think about spiritual gifts and I understand that if we would, if these believers would
have a proper understanding of spiritual gifts, I believe that what would be promoted in our
lives is humility, not pride. But we find that a careful study of the book of 1 Corinthians,
the church at Corinth, we find that we are reminded as to why this particular admonition
is given within the context of spiritual gifts. We find that the church in Corinth, they had
many problems, of course much as a result of their carnality and the divisions and what
have you, but there was a situation there in Corinth where they were, look at the spiritual
gift that I have and I'm better than you are because of the spiritual gift that I have
versus the spiritual gift that you have. And they had an understanding that was not
appropriate with regard to spiritual gifts, but we find here that Paul is giving this
instruction in Romans chapter 12, again just a brief text through verse number 8 with regard
to spiritual gifts. He says that we are not to think of him, this charge to every man,
not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. It reminds me of Micah 6 and
verse number 8 where the Bible says, he hath showed thee, O man, what is good and what
doth the Lord require of thee, but to do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with
thy God. And we begin to look at this text of Scripture this evening and this thought
of walking in humility and the importance of it, and I believe that in order for us
to walk in humility, there are two things that we must acknowledge. If you're taking
notes this evening, the first two thoughts for you are those things that we must acknowledge
before we will really walk in humility. And the first one is we must acknowledge the desire
of our own flesh. We must acknowledge the desire of our own flesh. What do I mean by
that? Well, your flesh desires glory. Your flesh desires attention. My flesh, we understand
humanity, we understand the human nature, and the reality is that we find throughout
the Scriptures many examples. We do not have time here on a Wednesday evening to really
do an in-depth study of all the examples that God gives us, but we find that it is a natural
tendency of mankind to desire recognition, glory, to have that desire. In fact, Paul
says in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, and we're going to look at that passage in just a moment,
I'm just going to quote the first part of the verse. He says,
"...though I would desire to glory." Now, he's going to say why he's not going to glory,
but it's interesting as he gives us that insight, "...though I would desire to glory." Listen,
this evening if we're going to walk in humility, we must first acknowledge the desire of our
flesh. Our flesh desires recognition. Our flesh wants to think of ourselves more highly
than we ought to think of ourselves, and we have this issue with pride, and it's certainly
a carnal, fleshly issue. Go back to the book of 2 Chronicles, if you will. We're going to look
just at two brief examples in the Old Testament. 2 Chronicles chapter 26, and in this text of
Scripture, God gives us some information about a king by the name of Uzziah. And this king is,
God tells us several things about him, and early on in his ministry, we find that he sought the
Lord, according to verse number 5 of 2 Chronicles 26. The Bible says that he sought God in the days
of Zechariah, who had understanding in the visions of God, and as long as he sought the Lord, God
made him to prosper. There's a whole message in that verse of Scripture, how we ought to seek
the Lord, and ought to put the Lord first. In verse 7, the verse begins by saying, and God
helped him. In verse number 8, at the end of the verse, it says that he strengthened himself
exceedingly, and God was working, and God was allowing Uzziah to prosper. And we find that the
text of Scripture, without going through all of the details, we find the advancements, if you will,
within the kingdom during his reign, and all that was taking place. But we come to chapter,
to verse number 15 in chapter 26, and the Bible says this,
and he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by cunning men, to be on the towers and upon the
bulwarks, to shoot arrows and great stones withal. And notice what the Bible says, and his name was
spread far abroad, for he was marvelously helped, and then notice these words, till he was strong.
And you look at verse 16, and it says, but when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to
destruction. If we're not careful, our heart too will be lifted up. Why? Because of the desire of
our flesh. We find that this man Uzziah, he was helped of the Lord. We find that God was the one
that was making him to prosper. But when his name was spread far abroad, when he was marvelously
helped, he becomes strong, and he gets this attention, and his heart is lifted up in pride,
and it leads to destruction. The desire of Uzziah is no different than the desire of any one of us.
The flesh that Uzziah was dealing with is the same flesh that we deal with, and we find this
evening that just as Uzziah had his name spread abroad, all of a sudden someone starts talking
about and starts recognizing we can get that big head syndrome, and we can think more highly
of ourselves than we ought to think, and I'm telling you, your flesh likes that.
Our flesh likes that. It's a desire of the flesh. At Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel chapter 4, and we'll
look at Daniel again in just a few moments. You might want to hold your place there. Turn to
Daniel chapter 4, if you will, and we'll just read one verse at this point, and then I'll come back
and read a couple of verses here in just a moment, but in Daniel chapter 4, we find that there was a
vision or a dream, and Daniel is going to provide that interpretation, but in verse number 30,
I want you to see what happens after the interpretation was given, and Daniel provided
Nebuchadnezzar with exactly what God was going to do because of the pride of this man,
but in verse number 29, it says, at the end of 12 months, he walked in the palace of the kingdom
of Babylon, and notice in Daniel 4, in verse number 30, notice what King Nebuchadnezzar says.
It says that the king spake and said, is not this great Babylon that, notice when he says,
I have built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power and for the honor of my
majesty. He was full of himself. He was a prideful man. He was actually, I mean, he was a super
powerful man. We understand that as you read throughout the book of Daniel and even other
portions of scripture in Jeremiah, and you see the power of Nebuchadnezzar leading the nation of
Babylon, but we find that his heart was lifted up, and just as Nebuchadnezzar here in Daniel 4
would have that desire to say, look at what I've done. Look at what I've accomplished. Look at what
I've, all of that pride, and it's a desire of our flesh. If we're going to walk in humility,
we must acknowledge this evening that my flesh, your flesh, that our flesh
has a desire to glory.
The second thing that we must acknowledge
is the danger of pride, the danger of pride.
God tells us several things about pride in his word.
Again, this evening, it's not an exhaustive study,
but we find in the book of Proverbs,
Proverbs 13, if you will,
God gives us a couple of truths here
in the book of Proverbs with regard to pride
that are important for us to point out this evening
as we acknowledge the danger of pride.
The Bible tells us here in Proverbs 13 in verse number 10
that pride leads to contention.
And we have a lot of contention in our world today.
We have a lot of contention in our homes today.
Unfortunately, there's contention in our churches today.
And we find the Bible tells us in Proverbs 13
in verse number 10, only by pride cometh contention,
but the well-advised is wisdom.
Pride leads to contention.
I'm right, you're wrong.
It's my way, not your way.
And we find that here,
he talks about the source of contention being pride.
And we see that so often.
And we see that the result of that
as it's revealed to us in Proverbs 16 in verse number 18,
where the Bible says a familiar verse of scripture,
pride goeth before destruction
and in haughty spirit before a fall.
We see this in the life of Nebuchadnezzar.
We see that he's lifted up and look at what I've done.
Look at what I've accomplished.
Only by pride cometh or pride goeth before destruction.
And we find that in Nebuchadnezzar's life,
I told you to hold your place there in Daniel four,
but in verse number 30,
we read there of his elevating himself.
And the Bible says there in verse number 34,
at the end of the day, as I, Nebuchadnezzar lifted,
well, let me back up to verse number 31.
While the word was in the king's mouth,
there fell a voice from heaven.
Here's what the voice said.
O king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken,
the kingdom is departed from thee
and they shall drive thee from men
and thy dwelling shall be with the beast of the field.
They shall make thee to eat grass as oxen
and seven times shall pass over thee
until thou know that the most high ruleth
in the kingdom of men and giveth it to whomsoever he will.
The same hour.
You see those words in your Bible in verse 33?
The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar.
And he was driven from men and did eat grass as oxen.
His body was wet with the dew of heaven
till his hairs were grown like eagle's feathers
and his nails like bird's claws.
You say, no.
Yeah, that's what happened.
Pride goeth before destruction.
He barely got the words out of his mouth in verse number 30.
Look at all of this.
Look at all that I've done.
While the word was in his mouth,
verse 31 tells us there fell a voice from heaven.
And in that same hour,
notice what Nebuchadnezzar acknowledges
at the end of this duration that he's there
driven out to the field.
It says in verse 37,
now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor
the king of heaven,
all whose works are truth and his ways judgment.
And then notice this last phrase of verse 37.
And those that walk in pride,
he is able to abase.
Nebuchadnezzar learned it the hard way.
Did he not?
See, we must acknowledge the danger of pride.
So many today fail to acknowledge the desire
of their flesh to have that glory,
and therefore they're not walking in humility.
They fail to acknowledge the danger of pride,
and therefore they do not walk in humility.
We live in a prideful society.
We find that God says this in James 4, 6,
and again in 1 Peter 5 and verse number 5.
He tells us that God resisteth the proud,
but giveth grace unto the humble.
I'm not sure what you,
if you get an image in your mind
when you read those words that God resisteth the proud,
but in my mind's eye,
I have the picture of someone resisting and pushing,
and God says he resisteth the proud,
but he giveth grace unto the humble.
Have you ever had somebody that was resisting you,
that you were resisting them?
I don't want God to resist me.
Pride leads to contention.
It leads to destruction.
We find that those who walk in pride,
God says that he resists.
He resisteth the proud.
Nebuchadnezzar we spoke of in Uzziah's situation
as we referenced in 2 Chronicles 26.
He was lifted up in pride, and so what did he do?
Well, he tried to do those things
that did not pertain to him.
He thought that he could fulfill
the responsibility of the priest, but he was the king,
and he was not permitted to go and to give
and to burn the incense and to do the duty of the priest.
It was not for him to do so.
We find that he went in and did so,
and there are some priests that went in
and they held him back, but he became leprous,
the leprosy immediately.
See, pride leads to destruction,
but there's so many, unfortunately,
that we come in contact with that we, too,
at times in our lives, that we, too, are prideful.
We acknowledge the desire of our flesh,
the danger of pride, and by acknowledging those two truths,
does it mean that we automatically will walk in humility?
Well, of course, the answer is no.
Just because we acknowledge that something
is wrong doesn't mean that we're going
to walk the way that we ought to walk,
and so, too often, we are guilty of being prideful,
even though we know the consequences,
even though we know that God resisteth the proud,
even though we know that pride leads to contention
and that pride cometh before destruction,
there are times still that we walk being proud
and not walking in humility.
I wanna give you two tips this evening.
I gave you two truths that we need to acknowledge
in order to come to the place of walking in humility,
but I wanna give you two tips in our closing time
this evening that I believe will help us
to walk in humility on a regular basis, continuously.
I believe it's possible for us, as God's people,
to walk in humility.
I do believe that it's possible that we can fulfill
what God has told us to do, that we would humble ourselves
under the mighty hand of God, that we would,
as Peter says it this way, that we would be clothed
with humility.
I do believe it's possible.
There are a number of things that we could give you
this evening.
I've tried to boil it down to just two simple tips,
and I hope that it would provoke for you
thought this evening on how we could walk in humility.
Number one, we must maintain a proper view of our God.
If we maintain a proper view of our God,
it will go a long way to helping us walk in humility.
We find that when Uzziah died, the Bible tells us of Isaiah,
and he saw God in his glory, high, holy, and lifted up.
It is trained and filled the temple,
is what we read in the book of Isaiah.
We find that Isaiah is broken.
He's seeing God in his rightful place, and it's amazing.
It's interesting when you see the timing,
because it says in the year that King Uzziah died,
this is what happens.
And we find this evening that if we would maintain
a proper view of God, that we'd understand
that he alone is God, that we'd understand this evening
that he is the creator, that he is the sustainer,
that we would see him for who he truly is.
Notice in our text in Romans chapter 12,
it's very interesting to see in the text,
and we're not dealing with the spiritual gifts,
but we're dealing with this walking in humility,
but we find it's given to us in this portion of Scripture
in the midst of, really at the beginning of the instruction
with regard to the spiritual gifts.
But notice in verse number six, the Bible says,
having then gifts differing according to the grace,
notice what it says, that is given to us.
Who gives it to us?
God.
So the gift that you have, or the gift that I have,
isn't because of us, it's because God gave it to us.
In fact, we read in each of the passages of Scripture
that God speaks of spiritual gifts
here in Romans chapter 12,
we see it in 1 Corinthians chapter 12,
and we see it in 1 Peter chapter four,
that in each passage of Scripture,
God makes it abundantly clear
that the spiritual gifts are given
to God's people by God himself.
The Spirit, the Holy Spirit of God,
giveth to every man severally as he will,
according to 1 Corinthians chapter 12.
We find that in verse number seven of 1 Corinthians 12,
it says that it's given to every man.
We find that in 1 Peter chapter number four,
it speaks about that we have received,
as every man hath received the gift, even as he receiveth.
so let him minister." Who did we receive it from? We received it from God. We received it from God.
And so when I have a proper understanding of spiritual gifts, it will help me to walk in
humility when I have that proper view of who God is, that I see Him in His glory, that I see Him
high, holy, and lifted up, that I understand that He alone is God and that the reality is this,
He is God without me and He's God without you. He's God without us, but we are nothing without
Him. He's God without us, but we are nothing without Him. And we find this evening that if
we would maintain a proper view of God, that we would regularly understand that every, every good
gift, not most of them, but every one of them, cometh down from above, right? We read it in
James, and we understand the truth that God gives us, and He's helping us to understand that He
is a good God and that He gives us every good and every perfect gift is from above.
And cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow
of turning. We find that the Bible tells us there are those that walk in pride and they have
this view, just as Uzziah had this idea of he was becoming famous, his name was spread abroad,
and he was marvelously helped till he was strong, and all of a sudden it started to look at, hey,
look at what we've done around here. And he gets a little prideful. Nebuchadnezzar, look at all that
I have done. Deuteronomy 8 and verse 18 admonishes us to remember that it is God who gives us the
power to get wealth. We live in a society today that a lot of people that are prideful over their
position, they're prideful over their possessions and what have you, and the reality is that God is
the one that allows us to have the power to get anything. See, we have to have that proper view
of God. When our view of God is out of balance, then all of a sudden it impacts how we view
ourself. But when my view of God is proper, when my view of God is what it is supposed to be,
then what's going to happen is, number two, I'm going to maintain a proper view of myself.
So we must first maintain a proper view of our God, but number two, maintain a proper view of
ourselves. It is important that we understand this evening that, yes, it starts with that proper view
of who God is, and then that leads to us having a proper view of ourselves. There are many times,
and we could speak of it, and there are people that use this terminology that Paul was the
greatest Christian that ever lived. Paul didn't think that way. You know what Paul said of himself?
That he was the chief chiefest of sinners. Paul was a man that I believe, as you study the
scriptures, walked in humility. And we find that as you look even in our text in Romans chapter 12
and verse number three, notice as Paul is going to begin giving this charge, this admonition to these
brethren and to give them the instruction with regard to the spiritual gifts, but he says,
listen, you're not to think of yourselves more highly than you ought to think. You're to walk
in humility, be humble, don't allow this to cause you to be prideful, think soberly, but I want you
to notice in Romans 12 and verse 3, notice the way he begins the verse, for I say, notice,
through the grace given unto me. You know, I think that Paul never got over the fact
that he was saved by the grace of God. I don't think the journey on the road to Damascus ever
kind of left Paul's mind. Paul regularly rehearses his conversion. He regularly shares with those
that he's ministering to how he was on that road and how the bright light shone and all that took
place, and Paul never got over the fact that God saved him. Paul never got over the fact that if
God had not saved him, he would go to a Christless eternity to the lake of fire. He never got over
that, and he understood who God was, and he understood who he was in a proper view of himself,
and we find that he says that the grace that was given unto me, listen, the grace is going to be
given to you as well. We read it in verse number six, having then gifts differing according to
the grace that is given to us. Paul had a certain position, but even think about what he said to the
believers in Corinth in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, in the midst of all of the divisions and all of the
carnality and all that was taking place, and there's a group of people saying, I'm of Paul,
and I'm of Apollos, and I'm of Cephas, and by the way, if that happens in some arenas today,
in some circles today, there's some people saying, that's right, those are the ones that I was
responsible for leading to Christ, that's right, that's my Christ. No, no, Paul says, who is Paul?
Who's Apollos? You know what we are? We're just ministers.
God uses some of us to plant, God uses some of us to water, but God's the one that gives the
increase, and God's, listen, God allows us, I love the way that he says it in 1 Corinthians 3,
in verse number 9, we are laborers together, it doesn't say for God, it says with God.
We are laborers together with God. I'm nothing without him, but God allows us to be a laborer of
his, and we allow, that would help us as we have that proper view of God, we have that proper view
of ourselves, that we recognize that God has given to me the grace, and God has allowed me
to serve him, to be a laborer together with him. What a blessing, what a privilege.
Paul says this in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Again, a verse of scripture that we regularly
hear or refer to, and Paul says, the beginning of the verse,
but by the grace of God, I am what I am. And his grace, it's not my grace, it's his grace,
he's the source of grace, which was bestowed upon me was not in vain, but I labored more abundantly
than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God, which was with me. What a perspective that Paul
had. How was he able to walk in humility? How was he able to be used of God? So often, we look at
the life of the apostle Paul and say, look at how God used Paul. That's because Paul was usable.
It's because Paul walked in humility. God wasn't resisting Paul, because Paul wasn't prideful.
God was using Paul, and God will use us as well if we walk in humility,
acknowledging that our flesh has a desire. Listen, we must never get to the place where we think, nah,
I don't have any. Your flesh desires to glory. You let people talk enough of good about you,
and all of a sudden, you start thinking real good about yourself.
The danger of pride leads to contention, destruction. God resists. We see this truth,
these two tips, we must maintain a proper view of God, a proper view of ourselves. I want to
finish with 2 Corinthians chapter 12. I mentioned in the beginning the first part of that verse,
and I told you that we'd turn there. So often in referencing 2 Corinthians chapter 12, our minds
race to verse number 9, when God says, my grace is sufficient for thee. And oh, what a precious
promise that is. What a great response that God gives to his servant Paul when he besought the
Lord thrice for this thing, that it might depart from him. And God says, my grace is sufficient for
thee. It's great truth. I'm so thankful. But I want to back up into the text of Scripture and deal
with the subject of pride and humility, which is before us this evening. And I want you to notice
in verse number 1, it says, it is not expedient for me, doubtless to glory, I will come to visions
and revelations of the Lord. I knew a man in Christ about 14 years ago, whether in the body
I cannot tell or whether out of the body I cannot tell, God knoweth, such in one caught up to the
third heaven. And I knew such a man, whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot tell, God
knoweth, how that he was caught up into paradise and heard unspeakable words, which is not lawful
for a man to utter. By the way, it's a great text of Scripture for people that tell you they went to
heaven and got a message for you. If Paul couldn't give us a message after he was caught up into the
third heaven, I don't think anyone else is either. Amen? Just a side thought. Verse number 5,
of such in one will I glory. I'm not going to glory myself. No, I'm going to glory in him,
yet of myself I will not glory, but in mine infirmities, for though I would desire to glory,
I shall not be a fool.
Notice, for I will say the truth, but now I forbear.
Notice the last part of verse 6, it's so important, lest any man should think of me above that
which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.
When I look at the end of verse number 6, in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, it brings great
conviction.
Why?
Paul is not, he's taking this thing of humility to a completely different level.
Paul's saying, I'm not going to glory, but I don't want other people to think more highly
of me either.
Now think about that.
Sometimes we say, well I didn't say it about myself, but man, they can just throw it all
on, and I just, yeah man, it's wonderful.
And we take glory in hearing what they, Paul says, no, no, no, now I forbear, lest any
man should think of me above that which he seeth me to be, or that he heareth of me.
Paul didn't want people, I believe, as I mentioned a moment ago, sometimes we hear people say,
Paul is the greatest Christian that ever walked upon the face of the earth.
I think Paul would cringe at hearing those words.
I'm being honest with you.
He did not want other people to think too highly of him.
We find this evening that Paul takes this thing of humility to a different level in
2 Corinthians chapter 12, a level by which revealing to me the means by which God was
able to use him in such a powerful way.
Paul was just a man that God was using.
Paul understands, just as we should understand this evening, the truth of John 15, when Jesus
said, I am the vine, ye are the branches.
Without me, how many things can we do?
Nothing.
It's what the text of Scripture says.
There's a lot of times that we think more highly of ourselves than we ought.
And we find this evening that Paul, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God,
as he's going to give this teaching about spiritual gifts, he says, now listen, I want
you to understand that as I give this teaching, as I give this truth, that I say to every
man that is among you not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think.
Amen.
Let's not think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think.
But let's not also allow other people to think more highly of us than they ought to
think.
In taking some measure of enjoyment, satisfaction, there's some level of pride, one step removed,
if you will, because I wasn't saying it about myself, but I…Paul says, I don't want people
to think more highly of me than they ought, but to think soberly.
See God has been so good to us.
I said it a moment ago, I'll say it again, God is God without me and without you.
Would you agree with that?
He's God.
He doesn't need you.
I'm so thankful He loves you.
I'm so thankful He loves me.
He doesn't need me, but He loves me.
He doesn't need me, but He extended His grace to me.
He doesn't need me, but He saved me.
And then He would allow me to serve Him.
It's absolutely amazing God's love.
See God is God without me.
I've only walked upon this face of this earth for a little over 44 years.
God was God well before I was around.
Even though God knew I would be born, He was God.
But understand this evening that without Him, we are nothing.
And if we can maintain that perspective, it'll go a long way to enabling us to walk in humility,
to walk humbly with our God.
Let's pray together.
Father, we love you.
We thank you for loving us.
We thank you for this charge, this admonition that we find here in Romans 12 as we're dealing
with this little series here on Wednesday nights of doing what we ought to do.
God, I pray that you'd help us to walk in humility.
Help us, Lord, to understand that you resist the proud, but give grace to the humble.
God, I don't want you to resist me.
God, my flesh is just like the flesh of anyone else.
Any example that we've used this evening or anyone else seated here tonight, and our
flesh desires to glory, God, I pray that you'd help me, help us to maintain a proper view
of who you are and who we are.
Help us to abide in you.
Help us, Lord, to live and walk in humility.
Bless our time of prayer.
I pray, God, that you'd be exalted.
We thank you that you hear and answer prayer.
We thank you that you're able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think.
I pray that you'd be honored and glorified, and we'll thank you for it in Christ's name
we pray.
Amen.
Does anyone need a prayer bulletin this evening?
You didn't get one on your way in tonight?